W-17017575-insights-hyperforce-duke (#314)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> :useu-regions: (US and EU Regions)

Reviewer: Did we decide on "Regions"? I thought we were using "Clouds".

Author: deleting, not used

> :useu-regions: (US and EU Regions)
> :hyperforce-regions: (CA and JP Regions)
> :all-regions: (All Regions)

Author: ```suggestion
```

| https://ca1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Canada], https://jp1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Japan] Clouds (on Hyperforce)
| Government Cloud | Private Cloud (3.x)

|{empty}

* <<alerts, Alerts>>
* xref:anypoint-custom-metrics-connector.adoc[Custom metrics]
* <<dashboards, Dashboards>> 
* xref:tools.adoc[Notifications] 
* xref:reports.adoc[Reports]
* xref:tools.adoc[Tools]
| Yes
| No
| Yes
| Yes

| <<insights, Anypoint Insights>>
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| No

| <<functional-monitoring>>
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| No

| <<logging, Log management>>
| Yes
| Yes (<<single-app, limited log search>>)
| Yes
| No

|{empty}
  xref:telemetry-exporter.adoc[Telemetry exports]
| Yes
| No
| No
| No
|===

//NOT SUPPORTED in PCE & Gov Cloud: Insights, Traces, Telemetry Exporter, API Functional Monitoring

For more information about MuleSoft Government Cloud and Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition (Anypoint Platform PCE), see xref:hosting-home::index.adoc#control-plane-hosting-options[Control Plane Hosting Options].

[[insights]]
=== Anypoint Insights

//feature tier:
include::reuse::partial$billing/pricing.adoc[tag=featureUsageTitReqMonitoring]

> Monitor performance data and issues across your deployed Mule apps and APIs  (_entities_), and get detailed insights on specific deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitor performance data and issues across your deployed Mule apps and APIs (_entities_), and get detailed insights on specific deployments. 
```

//TEMP INFO: Hyperforce 12/24 (W-17225983)

> For Japan Cloud and Canada Cloud instances of Anypoint Platform, Anypoint Insights is available in the Starter package. For US and EU clouds, Anypoint Insights remains a Beta release available in the Advanced and Titanium tiers at this time.

Reviewer: Do you need "at this time"?

Author: yes, this is intentional

Use connectors that help deliver Anypoint Monitoring notifications to external systems, including custom metrics connectors.

See xref:tools.adoc[].

[[functional-monitoring]]
=== API Functional Monitoring

Monitor APIs and endpoints at scheduled intervals. Receive reports about whether tests pass or fail, and view statistics about API and endpoint performance.

See xref:api-functional-monitoring::afm-in-anypoint-platform.adoc[API Functional Monitoring]. 

//Rajesh 11/24: retain data-storage-retention
[[data-storage-retention]]
=== Data Storage and Retention

Data storage and retention limits are determined by your pricing plan.
include::reuse::partial$billing/pricing.adoc[tag=featureAdvLimits]

include::reuse::partial$billing/pricing.adoc[tag=dataRetentionMonitoring]

See <<billing>>. For complete details about pricing, contact your customer support representative. 

[[billing]]
== Anypoint Platform Packages and Plans

Feature availability in Anypoint Monitoring depends on the tier of your Anypoint Platform pricing package or plan:

* <<plans-usage-based>>
* <<plans-legacy>>

[[plans-usage-based]]
=== Anypoint Monitoring Features for Usage-Based Packages

> Anypoint Monitoring is the standard method of monitoring Mule app and API performance so that you can more quickly identify and resolve issues. 

Reviewer: make this a partial?

Author: Adding this suggestion to[W-17361464](https://gus.lightning.force.com/a07EE000026JsovYAC)

of issues (MTTI).
* Store and search log data at scale.

[[features]]
== Monitoring Features by Control Plane Region

//TODO_TODO_TODO: "multiple" or "all"

> Anypoint Monitoring is available in multiple control plane regions that host Anypoint Platform. 

Author: ```suggestion
//TODO_TODO_TODO: "multiple" or "all"
Anypoint Monitoring is available in multiple control plane regions that host Anypoint Platform. 
```
pls verify @sathishpaulleo

Author: all

Author: done

multiple -> all

> //TODO_TODO_TODO: WHAT ABOUT GOV CLOUD AND PCE? 

Author: ```suggestion
//TODO_TODO_TODO: WHAT ABOUT GOV CLOUD AND PCE? 
```
@sathishpaulleo

Author: yes

Author: Insights not in gov cl or pce

Author: this is clear enough from banner on insights page, so no need to mention

** <<dashboards>>: Get metrics on individual deployments from charts in built-in and custom dashboards. 
** <<alerts>>
** <<logging>>
** <<data-storage-retention>>

> ** <<functional-monitoring>> 

Author: clarify this is a link to AFM or leave out

Author: done

** <<insights>>: Built-in dashboards with metrics across and within Mule app and API deployments

* https://ca1.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Canada (CA)] and https://ja1.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Japan (JP)] regions:
** <<insights>>: Get metrics across and within Mule app and API deployments from charts in built-in dashboards.

> ** <<functional-monitoring>>

Author: clarify this is a link to AFM or leave out

* https://ca1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Canada Cloud] and https://jp1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Japan Cloud] (Only Starter package features are available at this time):

** <<insights>> 
** <<functional-monitoring>> 

//TODO_TODO_TODO: VERIFY LINK

> For more information Anypoint Platform control plane regions, see xref:hosting-home::index.adoc##control-plane-hosting-options[Control Plane Hosting Options].

Author: TODO @dukesphere 
```suggestion
//TODO_TODO_TODO: VERIFY LINK
For more information Anypoint Platform control plane regions, see xref:hosting-home::index.adoc##control-plane-hosting-options[Control Plane Hosting Options].
```

Author: works

See xref:dashboards-using.adoc[Dashboards].

[[alerts]]
=== Event-Driven Alerts

Track trends and add your own alerts to identify abnormal behavior and problems in your app network.

image::intro-alerts.png[Alerts]

You can trigger alerts based on rules (or thresholds) and policies for your resources. When these thresholds are crossed for a certain period of time, you can receive notification to take action. The method of notification depends on the severity of the alert that you define.

See xref:alerts.adoc[Alerts].

[[logging]]
=== Log Management

Manage logs and log data for your deployments with these logging features:

* <<log-search>>
* <<raw-data-downloads>>

[[log-search]]

> ==== Log Search

Author: TODO: @dukesphere add note to starter/adv that link to Log Search in RTM only from us/eu

Author: added to partial in reuse

Author: done

See xref:logs.adoc[Logs].

> //TODO_TODO_TODO: IS THIS CORRECT?

Author: ```suggestion
//TODO_TODO_TODO: IS THIS CORRECT?
```
ask Rohit

Author: done, slight tweak

[[raw-data-downloads]]
==== Raw Data Downloads

Download warehoused log data on a Mule app, for example, to help investigate security, compliance, or other issues that logs can reveal.

See xref:raw-data.adoc[Raw Data].

=== Tools for Monitoring Integrations

In https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/monitoring[US] and https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com/monitoring[EU] regions, link to connectors that help deliver Anypoint Monitoring notifications to external systems, including custom metrics connectors.

See xref:tools.adoc[Tools].

> //TODO_TODO_TODO: VERIFY ALL REGIONS

Author: ```suggestion
//TODO_TODO_TODO: VERIFY ALL REGIONS
```
not sure if all regions support API Functional Monitoring

Author: not clear gc and pce: Rohit
TODO

[[plans-legacy]]
=== Anypoint Monitoring Features for Legacy Subscription-Based Plans

> Anypoint Monitoring is the standard method of monitoring Mule app and API performance so that you can more quickly identify and resolve issues. All organizations receive fundamental monitoring capabilities with their subscriptions. However, customers subscribing at the Titanium tier receive greater storage, guaranteed resources, and advanced capabilities that allow for greater control and flexibility.

Reviewer: What's the diff between Integration Advanced and Titanium?

Combine into a partial and include in both places?

Author: Core based and Usage based subscription features have different audiences. There are 5 tiers right now with some differences. As things settle over time, we'll make adjustments. Right now, we'll keep as-is.

|No
|Yes

|xref:telemetry-exporter.adoc[Telemetry Exporter] for audit logs and traces
|No
|No
|Yes

|xref:anypoint-custom-metrics-connector.adoc[Custom metrics]
|No
|No
|Yes

> 4+| xref:app-dashboards.adoc[*Built-in App Dashboards*]

Reviewer: Why bold? It won't be translated...

Author: debolding

> 4+| xref:app-dashboards.adoc[*Built-in App Dashboards*]

Author: ```suggestion
4+| xref:app-dashboards.adoc[Built-in App Dashboards]
```

|No
|Yes

> 4+| xref:api-analytics-dashboard.adoc[*Built-in API Dashboards*]

Reviewer: bold necessary?

Author: ```suggestion
4+| xref:api-analytics-dashboard.adoc[Built-in API Dashboards]
```

|No
|Yes

> 4+| xref:dashboard-custom-config.adoc[*Custom Dashboards*]

Reviewer: Bold?

Author: ```suggestion
4+| xref:dashboard-custom-config.adoc[Custom Dashboards]
```

4+| *Alerts*

|xref:basic-alerts.adoc[Basic alerts] for apps, servers, and APIs
|Yes
|Yes
|Yes, with xref:performance-and-impact.adoc#data-retention-and-aggregation[higher limits]

|xref:advanced-alerts.adoc[Advanced alerts]
|No
|No
|Yes

4+| *Log Management*

|xref:log-search-query-syntax.adoc[Log search]
|No
|No
|Yes

|xref:log-points.adoc[Log points]
|No
|No
|Yes

|xref:raw-data.adoc[Raw data]
|No
|No
|Yes

4+| *Additional Anypoint Monitoring features*

|xref:api-analytics-dashboard.adoc#anypoint-monitoring-archive-api[Anypoint Monitoring Archive API]
|No
|No
|Yes

|<<functional-monitoring, API Functional Monitoring>>
|Yes
|No
|Yes

|xref:reports.adoc[Reports]
|No
|No
|Yes

|===

[[note-visualizer]]
NOTE: Anypoint Visualizer app network integration refers to an Anypoint Visualizer widget within Anypoint Monitoring. Anypoint Visualizer as a product outside of Anypoint Monitoring is available to organizations regardless of pricing plan. 

== Use Cases

The following use cases provide examples of how you can use Anypoint Monitoring.

* Understand performance-related KPIs +

> DevOps engineer Gary maintains a series of APIs related to a transaction processing system. Because the TPS requires swift response time, Gary uses API response time dashboards and alerts to send an email when there is a bottleneck. After gathering some data, Gary can then size his apps.

Reviewer: 🤣

Author: I wonder if that was Sara or Valk. 😆

> DevOps engineer Gary maintains a series of APIs related to a transaction processing system. Because the TPS requires swift response time, Gary uses API response time dashboards and alerts to send an email when there is a bottleneck. After gathering some data, Gary can then size his apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DevOps engineer Gary maintains a series of APIs related to a transaction processing system. Because the TPS requires swift response, Gary uses API response-time dashboards and alerts to send an email when a bottleneck occurs. After gathering some data, Gary can then size his apps.
```

> * Plan resource allocation across the app network +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Plan resource allocation across the app network 
+
```
